+++
title = "chaos machine"
+++

# chaos machine

{% materials() %}oak wood, steel, slate, glass | 52 x 52 x 192 cm{% end %}

The Chaos Machine is the second blockchain-based artwork of the
Distributed Gallery deepening the links between art and money. In one
word, the Chaos Machine allows anyone to insert a banknote inside;
once inserted, this note falls into the window space and is deposited
on a heating resistor, In exchange? The machine will randomly play
music and offer the user, via a smart contract, the possibility to
integrate a song to the playlist. At the moment, this machine exists
in two copies. One is display at Schinkel Pavillon the other at
FullNode (Berlin). As soon as a ticket burns on one of these Chaos
Machine, music is played on each one. So, if one hear music coming out
of the Chaos Machine but no bills are burning, then it means that
someone else is burning bills on the other Chaos Machine.

Is it a crypto-jukebox? Or a sophisticated toaster ? In the special
edition of the Chaos Machine, published on summer 2018 by R.U.S.T
editions, Bernard Aspe, a french philosopher call it the Exterminating
Angel, maybe because the Chaos Machine shows in a spectacular way,
either the passage from a fiducial currency to a cryptographic
currency, or even the emptiness inherent in any monetary abstraction.

Unlike the Ready-Made Token, the Chaos Machine is a physical artwork,
designed to be reproducible. In order to become a virus-like machine,
the Distributed Gallery left the plans and the code available for
anyone to built their own Chaos Machine.

## links

[upload your tracks](#) | [browse the GitHub repo](#) 

## gallery

{{ youtube(id="fVPh3FeqpU0") }}

{{ gallery() }}

<!-- 
<section class="gallery">
  <div class="row">
    <div class="column">
      <img src="/img/chaos/double.jpg" />
      <img src="/img/chaos/schema_1.jpg" />
    </div>
    <div class="column">
      <img src="../img/chaos/waffer.jpg" />
      <img src="../img/chaos/schema_3.jpg" />
    </div>
    <div class="column">
      <img src="../img/chaos/schema_2.jpg" />
    </div>
  </div>
</section> -->